
Character Analysis

(Avoiding Spoilers)

Grew Up… in Hell’s Kitchen, New York City, with his boxer father “Battling Jack” Murdock. Matt’s father was loving and affectionate, but lived a dangerous life that eventually got him killed for refusing to throw a fight. That was shortly after young Matt lost his sight in an accident, leaving him a blind orphan.

Living… still in Hell’s Kitchen. Even after all he’s been through, Matt couldn’t imagine leaving

Profession… lawyer with a heart of gold and masked vigilante crime fighter. Matt could have landed a cushy job at a soulless law firm called Landman and Zack. Instead, he decided to open up his own good-hearted practice with his best friend, Foggy Nelson. But Matt also has a secret: After he lost his sight, his other senses were heightened to an incredible degree – allowing him to easily navigate the world using a form of echo-location. Matt puts those impressive skills to work as a masked crime fighter called Daredevil.

Interests…practicing his Catholic faith, flirting with girls, and fighting for justice. When Matt isn’t battling legal cases or beating up criminals, he’s more than likely in confession, discussing his vigilante work with a priest. “I'm not seeking penance for what I've done, Father,” he explains. “I'm asking forgiveness for what I'm about to do.” But every once in a while the guilt-ridden Matt will cut loose by going out to drink at Josie’s Bar with Foggy and their assistant/friend Karen Page. Mostly, however, he spends his time struggling to save the innocent and punish the guilty.

Relationship status.. single. Although the handsome Matt has never met a woman he couldn’t charm, he’s never settled down with anyone. However, he does grow particularly close to a nurse named Claire Temple after she agrees to patch him up after his crime-fighting.

Challenge… protecting Hell’s Kitchen without compromising his morals. While New York City is full of pick-pockets and purse-snatchers, organized crime represents a much more insidious threat. Daredevil is determined to find a man named Wilson Fisk, who’s calling the shots in the criminal underworld. What he has to decide, however, is how far he’s willing to go to stop him.

Personality… brave, intelligent, secretive, and tortured by the violence he must inflict. Matt is basically living a triple life. He’s funny, charming, and bumbling in his personal life; intelligent and captivating in the courtroom; and vicious and fearless in the streets. Matt seldom uses any of his skills for personal gain, and instead sees it as his duty to help innocent people. He’s a kind of modern saint. Although like many saints, he struggles to live with the guilt of never being able to save everyone.
