
Character Analysis

(Avoiding Spoilers)

Grew up… as the son of the sorceress Visenna and the warrior Korin. But he was abandoned by his parents at Kaer Morhen, a stronghold and training ground for potential witchers (professional monster hunters). Geralt’s raw talent set him apart from his peers, and he was raised to be one of the greatest witchers and warriors that the world has ever seen.

Living… in confusion. By all reports Geralt was killed during a massacre of non-humans at Rivia, where he was left with a pitchfork sticking out of his chest. But despite everyone’s insistence that Geralt is dead, he recently found himself very much alive – albeit with amnesia and little memory of his previous life. He’s made his way back to Kaer Morhen, where his network of allies and friends may allow him to finally start piecing things back together.

Profession… professional monster slayer, or “witcher.” Witchers are trained in combat, sorcery, and alchemy from a young age, and then subjected to magical mutations that grant them supernatural strength, reflexes, and agility. While they perform an invaluable service in fighting the monsters of the world, they are still seen as “non-humans” and are often greeted with racism and prejudice. Geralt is a famous witcher, having saved kings and slain legendary beasts, but his titles and reputation do little to protect him from the cruelty of the world around him.

Interests… recovering his memories. Geralt isn’t sure how he came back to life, but he’s determined to find out. Of course, it isn’t simple for him to make his way through the world, and as he quests to find out the secrets surrounding his death he’ll have to uncover conspiracies, make dangerous alliances, and slay plenty of monsters.

Relationship status… single, although Geralt is irresistible to the ladies. Before he was killed he was deeply in love with the sorceresses Yennefer, but since his death he has few memories of her, and no idea where she is. He also has a persistent flirtation with the beautiful sorceress Triss Merigold, who is one of his oldest friends and one of the few people Geralt can trust.

Challenge… uncovering a conspiracy behind the group of sorcerer-led bandits who attacked Kaer Morhen and stole the equipment used to make new Witchers. But Geralt’s problems are myriad. Not only does he have to regain his memories to reclaim his prior life, but he’s also been tasked with aiding those he meets who need the witcher’s help. Add all that to the fact that Geralt is perpetually penniless, hated, and given dangerous work, and you have a recipe for a life of constant conflict. The odds are stacked impossibly against him. But Geralt spent his whole first life overcoming impossible odds, so why should his second one be any different?

Personality… crude, pragmatic, and cynical. Life has been unkind to Geralt, and left him shackled by self-doubt and uncertainty. He is burdened with scruples, and constantly questions the morality of his work – questions that do not stop even when he is called upon to slay violent bandits and marauding beasts. Geralt is powerful enough that he is often the deciding force in conflicts, capable of intervening and delivering victory to one side or the other, but he takes no joy in this agency. He might enjoy it if he lived in a world of heroes and villains, but Geralt’s world is of a decidedly more morally ambiguous place – it’s fraught with greed, sex, racism, and cruelty. Geralt struggles to retain his humanity (even if he's considered a "non-human") in a world that seems dead-set on stripping it away.
