Extremely durable weapon forged from the Asgardian metal Uru by the command of Odin; favored weapon of Thor. 

Only those of sound moral character and integrity may lift Mjolnir although it is possible to lift the Mjolnir without having moral character and integrity proven by the Hulk, it is unsure what allowed him to lift it. It may be his limitless capacity for strength which allowed Hulk to break such a powerful enchantment. 
The hammer can summon the elements wind, rain, thunder, and lightning for the wielder to use at their discretion. It is able to open interdimensional portals, such as the one to Asgard. Mjolnir possessed the power to bestow the ability of time travel to its wielder until Immortus removed it.

Mjolnir's origin in Marvel continuity mirrors the original Norse legend. The hammer is created when Odin's adopted son Loki cuts off the hair of the goddess Sif as part of a cruel jest, and, when threatened with violence by Thor, promises to fetch replacement hair from the dwarf smiths. 

Loki commissions the hair from the Sons of Ivaldi, and the obliging dwarves create the hair and a magic ship and spear as gifts for the gods. Loki is convinced that no one can match their workmanship, and challenges a dwarf named Eitri to make finer treasures. Eitri creates a golden ring and golden boar spear with magical properties, and then begins work on a hammer. Loki panics at the sight of the treasures, and, afraid he will lose the wager, transforms himself into a gadfly and stings Eitri's assistant on the brow as he is working the bellows for the forge. The assistant stops for a moment to wipe away the blood, and the bellows fall flat. As a result, the hammer's handle is shorter in length than Eitri had originally intended, meaning that the hammer could only be wielded one-handed.

Despite the error, the Norse gods consider Eitri to have forged the greater treasures. Loki loses the bet and in retaliation the Sons of Ivaldi sew Loki's lips shut. The ruler of the Norse gods, Odin, uses the hammer – called Mjolnir ("Grinder") by Eitri – and eventually passes it to his son Thor, on the condition that he first prove he is worthy to wield the weapon.