
Character Analysis

(Avoiding Spoilers)

Living… in ho-hum suburban anonymity. Once a prominent and well-loved superhero, Mr. Incredible took on the life of Bob Parr fulltime after he was sued for saving a man from committing suicide and subsequently forced into hiding. Bob always enjoyed his double life — “Who wants the pressure of being super all the time?” — but he never wanted Mr. Incredible to retire for good. 

Profession… insurance claims agent at Insuricare. Bob commutes to the downtown Insuricare office, where he responds to insurance claims all day from his small cubicle. Bob often takes pity on the customers and tells them how to navigate Insuricare’s loopholes. His diminutive boss, Gilbert Huph, has a massive Napoleonic complex and reprimands Bob for letting the customers “penetrate the bureaucracy.”

Interests… fighting crime, even though he’s supposed to be a civilian now. On Wednesday nights, Bob goes out “bowling” with his best friend Lucius Best (aka the superhero Frozone). They sit in the car listening to the police scanner, waiting for some crime to go down so they can dish out vigilante justice, like the good old days.

Relationship Status… married to Helen Parr, aka Elastigirl. Together they have three children, Violet, Dash and Jack-Jack. Helen had little trouble discarding her superhero past and turning her focus to raising a family, but fifteen years later, Bob still pines for the glory day. His “obsession with being undervalued” puts a strain on their relationship.

Challenge… stopping Syndrome’s dastardly plot. Bob is approached by a mysterious woman named Mirage, who offers him a handsome sum to fly out to a tropical island and defeat her agency’s rogue robot. Able to resume his activities as Mr. Incredible, with a boost to his bank account and self-esteem, Bob has a new lease on life. But when he comes face to face with Mirage’s vindictive boss Syndrome, he finds himself in a fight to stay alive.

Personality… hotheaded but good-natured. Bob genuinely wants to be Mr. Incredible to save lives and make the world a better place, but he also enjoyed the perks of being superhero, like basking in the adulation of the masses. Once resigned to civilian life, he has frequent anger issues, which cause to him lose control of his powers and break things, which only exacerbates his anger; it’s a vicious cycle.
