            In the year 2110, rising toxicity levels make life unsustainable on Earth.
            After all the humans leave Earth aboard giant spaceships, millions of WALL•E robots and a lesser amount of mobile incinerators are left behind to clean up the dirty planet.
            But after 700 years, the incinerators and all but one WALL•E robot have failed. 
            This last operational WALL•E numbered "62,675" is still hard at work, blissfully unaware of the futility of his situation. 
            During this time he befriends a cockroach (whom he names Hal). Though he continues obeying his directive to compact trash,
             as he develops curiosity, he begins saving odds and ends that fascinate him. 
            He hides out from sandstorms and rain in his truck, spending his time sorting his collection, the pride of which is an old VHS copy of the musical Hello, Dolly!. 
            To keep himself going, he has taken to salvaging parts from his inoperative counterparts.

            One day after work, he finds a mysterious red thing that zips away from him. 
            He follows, not noticing that there are several others behind him. 
            Once the red thing stops, he tries to grab it, but it turns out to be a light from a massive ship coming down on him. 
            He narrowly escapes by digging a hole into the ground to hide in. Once the ship lands, it deposits EVE, a robot sent back to Earth to evaluate the soil to check for signs of ongoing photosynthesis, proof that life is sustainable again. 
            WALL•E is fascinated with this new robot and soon falls in love with her, wishing to hold her hand like he'd seen done in his movie. Despite their hostile encounter, EVE soon begins to befriend WALL•E,
             after amused by his behavior and after being saved by a sandstorm. 
             Inside his truck, WALL•E  shows her a plant he had found earlier, which she immediately takes and stores in her cavity before going into standby mode. 
             Alarmed, WALL•E tries to wake her inert body but fails, so for the next several days, he protects EVE from any kinds of bad weather conditions, taking her out on "dates". 
             Eventually, he gives up on her awakening and attempts to return to work, but finds he cannot focus on his directive; 
             EVE is all he cares about. 
